---
layout: post
title: "GSoC 2025 - Week 11 - Mid-term 1"
date: 2025-08-17 00:00:00 +0530
categories: [GSoC]
tags: [Yocto, AGL, RaspberryPI, GSoC, LFX, LF]
description: "Mid-term Evaluation Started"
author: danascape
toc: true
---

This week was quite productive as my mentors walked me through the expectations for the mid-term evaluation and the key deliverables I needed to achieve. We also discussed possible directions for the application. After some brainstorming, we decided to move forward with building a **Flutter-based application**. At this stage, no specific GUI or feature set had been finalized, but the focus was on validating the basic workflow and ensuring communication between Flutter and ROS2.

For Flutter integration with ROS2, we considered two main approaches: [ros-bridge][ros-bridge] and [rcldart][rcldart]. Since ros-bridge is relatively old and less actively maintained, we chose to experiment with **rcldart**, a more modern library recently introduced by [Harun Kurt][HarunLinkedin]. This seemed like the right choice for long-term stability and better support with Dart/Flutter.

To successfully clear the mid-term evaluation, I had three primary tasks:  
* Boot the Raspberry Pi 500 with the AGL-ROS2 feature built in.  
* Source and test ROS2 demo nodes to confirm everything was functional.  
* Develop a basic Flutter application on my host Linux machine that communicates with ROS2 using the rcldart library.  

Overall, this milestone helped set the foundation for the second half of the project.

[ros-bridge]: http://wiki.ros.org/rosbridge
[rcldart]: https://github.com/rcldart
[HarunLinkedin]: https://www.linkedin.com/in/harun-kurt-85b0162b4/